docs: improve Getting Started (#11202)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/getting-started/use-cases.md

# Use Cases

This page describes some common use cases for Renovate, for those who are new and would like to get their heads around the capabilities.

> ## Development Dependency Updates

Reviewer: We Sure Use A Lot Of Capitalization In Our Headers.

Are we sure we need all those capitals, or can we get rid of some of them? 😄

Author: I don't really mind, so if you prefer less then feel free to propose more changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Development dependency updates
```

> The original use case, and still the most popular, is for developers to automate updating of their development dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The original use case, and still the most popular one, is for developers to automate updating of their development dependencies.
```

> The original use case, and still the most popular one, is for developers to automate updating of their development dependencies.

Reviewer: When reading this, it seems like Renovate might not update _production_ dependencies, but maybe that's me being silly. 

Readers might think: "Oh, I'll have to update my _production_ dependencies myself then, as Renovate only updates _development_ dependencies.

> The original use case, and still the most popular one, is for developers to automate updating of their development dependencies.

Author: ```suggestion
The original use case, and still the most popular one, is for developers to automate dependency updating in their software projects.
```

> ### Updating of Package Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Updating of package files
```

> ### Updating of package files

Reviewer: This section doesn't mention Renovate's monorepo support, which I think is one of the main differentiators for us vs Dependabot. (Depfu works with monorepos as well)

Might be good to write a small blurb about that here?

Author: I think Dependabot has decent monorepo support? But yes, perhaps adding a section on monorepo/multi-language support can be useful

- Renovate then runs `npm install`, which triggers `npm` to update the `package-lock.json` accordingly
- Renovate then commits both the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` files together for the PR

### Custom dependency extraction

Renovate supports 60+ different types of package files natively, but sometimes dependencies will not be detected by Renovate by default due to either:

- The package manager/file format is not yet supported, or
- The file format is not a standard or is completely proprietary

In such cases, Renovate has a "regex" manager which you can configure with custom patterns to extract dependencies regardless.
Users can configure the regex manager by telling it:

- Which file pattern(s) to match
- How to identify the dependency name and version from within the file
- Which datasource (e.g. Docker registry, npm registry, etc) to use to look up new versions

The end result is that Renovate can keep dependencies in custom file formats up-to-date as long as the dependency datasource is already known to Renovate.

## DevOps tooling

Renovate is increasingly used for purposes which are traditionally described as DevOps instead of Developer.

> ### DevOps / Infrastructure as Code Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### DevOps / Infrastructure as Code updates
```

Repositories today consist of more than just development dependencies, and commonly include DevOps-related files like CI/CD configs or "Infrastructure as Code" (IaC) files like Docker, Kubernetes or Terraform files.
Renovate considers these all to be forms of "package managers" and "package files" and therefore detects and updates them accordingly.

Docker-compatible images are one of the key building blocks of modern software and so are most commonly found, in both CI/CD pipeline configs as well as referenced in IaC files.

> Renovate will detect these then look up tags and digests from Docker registries to determine not only if a new tag exists but also if a new digest does too.

Reviewer: > Renovate will detect these then look up tags and digests from Docker registries to determine not only if a new tag exists but also if a new digest does too.

I keep re-reading this sentence, it's tricky to understand.

Maybe something like this would work better? Feel free to edit the suggestion if needed!

```suggestion
Renovate will detect these IaC files and looks up tags and digests from Docker registries to determine if a new tag exists, Renovate will also determine if a new digest exists.
```

Reviewer: YES! That's way better, thank you! 😄

An example of tag-based updating would be `node` images from Docker Hub.
These are typically tagged using their version, like `14.17.4` but can also have more elaborate tags like `14.17.4-alpine3.11`.
Renovate handles both these tag scenarios and will propose updates such as from `14.17.4` to `14.7.5`, or from `14.17.4-alpine3.11` to `14.17.5-alpine3.11`.

A better example of Renovate's power is when updating Docker digests.
While humans could be reasonably expected to check and update versions like `14.17.4`, looking up image digests and updating them manually is impractical to do at scale.
Renovate can not only keep Docker digests updated, but it can even be configured to "pin" digests from being tag-based to being tag+digest based to get immutable builds.

> ### Internal Package Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Internal package updates
```

- Keep internal version use as consistent as possible

Renovate is often used to achieve both the above best practices by detecting and updating internal dependencies just like external or Open Source dependencies.

An example from Renovate itself is the use of submodule updating to automate the process of updating Renovate's documentation:

- Renovate's main repository [`renovatebot/renovate`](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate) contains the majority of Markdown documentation files
- Renovate's documentation build repository [`renovatebot/renovatebot.github.io`](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovatebot.github.io) contains a submodule link to `renovatebot/renovate`
- Submodule updates are performed automatically whenever detected
- After the automatic update is merged, the documentation site is rebuilt and pushed live

The above use case makes use of Renovate's "automerge" feature, which allows for fully automated updates without need for manual approval, merging, or even a PR at all if desired.
Automerge is particularly useful for internal dependencies when it's best to use the approach of "if it passes tests then merge it".

> ## Advanced Configuration Use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Advanced configuration
```

Maybe we're better of naming this like my suggestion? The word `use` seems a bit odd here.

I'd expect either:

- No `use` in header at all _or_
- `Advanced configuration use cases`

The below capabilities are common across the above use cases.

> ### Batched Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Batched updates
```

Although Renovate defaults to separating each dependency update into its own PR, some users prefer to batch or "group" updates together.
For example, group all patch updates into one PR or even perhaps all non-major updates together (patches and minor updates).

Renovate supports this capability using the `groupName` configuration as part of `packageRules`.

> ### Scheduled Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scheduled updates
```

Some users prefer to limit which hours of the day or week when Renovate will raise updates.
This may be to reduce "noise" during working hours, but also to reduce the chance of CI contention at times when developers are more likely to be waiting on tests to finish.

Renovate allows users to define time ranges during which to create updates using the `schedule` field.

> ### On-demand Updates

Reviewer: I like this section overall, do we intend to link to the Dependency Dashboard showcase page in here eventually?

Author: Yes, definitely!

Reviewer: Okay! 😄

> ### On-demand Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### On-demand updates
```

Renovate's "Dependency Dashboard" capability is supported on platforms which support dynamic markdown checkboxes (GitHub, GitLab, and Gitea).
When enabled, an issue titled "Dependency Dashboard" is created which lists all updates which are pending, in progress, or were previously closed ignored.

> Importantly, it also enables the concept of "Dependency Dashboard Approval", meaning that configured PRs won't be raised automatically and will instead only be created once the corresponding checkbox is ticked in the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importantly, it also enables the concept of "Dependency Dashboard Approval", meaning that configured PRs won't be raised automatically and will instead only be created once the corresponding checkbox is clicked in the dashboard.
```

GitHub's style guide uses "click" for interactions like these, so I think we're safe following their example here.

I also recently changed the Dashboard interaction text to use the word `click` instead of `tick` or variants. 😄

> Importantly, it also enables the concept of "Dependency Dashboard Approval", meaning that configured PRs won't be raised automatically and will instead only be created once the corresponding checkbox is clicked in the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importantly, it also enables the concept of "Dependency Dashboard Approval", meaning that configured PRs won't be raised automatically and will instead only be created once the corresponding checkbox is clicked on the dashboard.
```

Not sure if the correct phrase is:

- is clicked `in` the dashboard _or_
- is clicked `on` the dashboard

This can be an improvement in two ways:

- By not raising PRs automatically, it can allow users to request them on-demand at times when they are ready to take action on them, and
- Offering an alternative to permanently ignoring/disabling certain types of updates, such as major updates

By having this dashboard concept it gives users both visibility and control over updates.

> ### Configuration Presets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuration presets
```

It's pretty common that users will run Renovate on many repositories and want mostly similar config on them all too.
Renovate supports the concept of configuration "presets" to avoid users needing to duplicate configuration across all such repos.

Configuration presets are JSON configuration files which are committed to repositories and then referenced from others.

> Renovate also includes over 100 presets built-in, including its default recommend `config:base` preset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate also includes over 100 built-in presets, including the default recommended `config:base` preset.
```

I think this is more correct?

The typical workflow for a company is:

- Create a dedicated repository to store the company's default Renovate settings
- Set that repository as the default `extends` value when onboarding new repositories

> This means that repositories get the centralized config by default, while any changes made to the centralized config repository are then propagated out to other repositories immediately.

Reviewer: We might want to mention that you can override the "global/centralized" config by putting overriding config in the repositories own config file?

Author: I think too much detail for here. We should have a dedicated page to the use of presets

Reviewer: Ah okay, let's leave this as-is then. 😄
